docs/DOCKER_SETUP.md, before:

# Agent Spy - Docker Setup Guide

## Overview

Agent Spy provides comprehensive Docker support with separate configurations for production and development environments. The containerized setup includes the FastAPI backend, React frontend, and persistent SQLite storage.

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [Docker](https://docker.com/) (version 20.10+)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (version 2.0+)
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/lalanikarim/agent-spy.git
cd agent-spy
```

### 2. Configure Environment
```bash
# Copy the environment template
cp env.example .env

# Edit the .env file with your preferred settings
nano .env  # or your preferred editor
```

### 3. Start Agent Spy

#### Production Deployment
```bash
# Using the convenience script
bash scripts/docker-start.sh

# Or manually with docker compose
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d
```

#### Development Environment
```bash
# Using the convenience script
bash scripts/docker-dev.sh

# Or manually with docker compose
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
```

## Docker Architecture

### Service Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Docker Network: agentspy-network"
        subgraph "Frontend Container"
            F1[Nginx Server]
            F2[React App]
        end

        subgraph "Backend Container"
            B1[FastAPI Server]
            B2[Python Runtime]
        end

        subgraph "Storage"
            V1[SQLite Volume]
        end
    end

    subgraph "External"
        U[Users/Browsers]
        A[AI Agents]
    end

    U --> F1
    F1 --> F2
    F2 --> B1
    A --> B1
    B1 --> V1
```

### Container Details

#### Frontend Container (`agentspy-frontend`)
- **Base Image**: `nginx:alpine`
- **Build Process**: Multi-stage build with Node.js 20
- **Served Content**: Optimized React production build
- **Internal Port**: 80 (fixed)
- **External Port**: Configurable via `FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT`
- **Health Check**: HTTP request to root path

#### Backend Container (`agentspy-backend`)
- **Base Image**: `python:3.13-slim`
- **Package Manager**: uv for fast dependency management
- **Runtime**: FastAPI with Uvicorn server
- **Internal Port**: 8000 (fixed)
- **External Port**: Configurable via `BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT`
- **Health Check**: HTTP request to `/health` endpoint

## Configuration Files

### Production Configuration (`docker-compose.yml`)

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  backend:
    build:
      context: ..
      dockerfile: docker/backend/Dockerfile
    container_name: agentspy-backend
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      ENVIRONMENT: production
      DEBUG: false
      HOST: 0.0.0.0
      PORT: 8000
      DATABASE_URL: sqlite+aiosqlite:////app/data/agentspy.db
      CORS_ORIGINS: "*"
    ports:
      - "${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}:8000"
    volumes:
      - sqlite_data:/app/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:8000/health"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 40s

  frontend:
    build:
      context: ../frontend
      dockerfile: ../docker/frontend/Dockerfile
    container_name: agentspy-frontend
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "${FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-3000}:80"
    depends_on:
      - backend
    environment:
      - VITE_BACKEND_HOST=${BACKEND_HOST:-localhost}
      - VITE_BACKEND_PORT=${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}
      - VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://${BACKEND_HOST:-localhost}:${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}/api/v1

volumes:
  sqlite_data:
    driver: local

networks:
  agentspy-network:
    driver: bridge
```

### Development Configuration (`docker-compose.dev.yml`)

Key differences from production:
- **Hot Reloading**: Source code mounted as volumes
- **Debug Mode**: Enabled for both frontend and backend
- **Different Ports**: 8001 (backend), 3000 (frontend) to avoid conflicts
- **Verbose Logging**: DEBUG level logging enabled
- **Development Database**: Separate SQLite file (`agentspy_dev.db`)

## Environment Variables

### Core Settings
```bash
# Environment type
ENVIRONMENT=production  # or development

# Debug mode
DEBUG=false  # Set to true for development

# External port mapping
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8000   # External port for backend API
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=3000  # External port for frontend
OTLP_EXTERNAL_PORT=4317      # External port for OTLP gRPC

# Backend hostname for frontend connection
BACKEND_HOST=localhost       # Hostname for frontend to connect to backend
```

### Database Configuration
```bash
# Database settings
DATABASE_ECHO=false  # Set to true to see SQL queries

# Note: Database URL is automatically configured for Docker
# SQLite file is stored in persistent volume at /app/data/
```

### API Configuration
```bash
# Authentication (optional)
REQUIRE_AUTH=false
API_KEYS=your-api-key-1,your-api-key-2

# CORS settings
CORS_ORIGINS=http://localhost:3000,https://yourdomain.com
CORS_CREDENTIALS=true
```

### Performance Settings
```bash
# Resource limits
MAX_TRACE_SIZE_MB=10
REQUEST_TIMEOUT=30

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
LOG_FORMAT=json
```

## Docker Commands Reference

### Basic Operations
```bash
# Start services
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d

# Stop services
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down

# View logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml logs -f

# View service status
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml ps
```

### Development Commands
```bash
# Start development environment
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml up -d

# Follow backend logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f backend

# Follow frontend logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f frontend

# Restart a specific service
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml restart backend
```

### Maintenance Commands
```bash
# Rebuild containers (after code changes)
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d --build

# Clean up containers and networks
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down --remove-orphans

# Remove volumes (WARNING: This deletes all data)
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down -v

# View container resource usage
docker stats agentspy-backend agentspy-frontend
```

## Dockerfile Analysis

### Backend Dockerfile (`docker/backend/Dockerfile`)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13-slim

# Environment setup
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 \
    PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 \
    UV_SYSTEM_PYTHON=1 \
    PYTHONPATH=/app

# Install system dependencies
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

# Install uv package manager
COPY --from=ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:latest /uv /bin/uv

# Copy and install Python dependencies
COPY pyproject.toml uv.lock ./
RUN uv sync --frozen --no-dev

# Copy source code
COPY src/ ./src/

# Security: Create non-root user
RUN adduser --disabled-password --gecos '' appuser && \
    mkdir -p /app/data && \
    chown -R appuser:appuser /app
USER appuser

# Health check and startup
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=10s --start-period=5s --retries=3 \
    CMD curl -f http://localhost:8000/health || exit 1
CMD ["uv", "run", "python", "src/main.py"]
```

**Key Features:**
- **Multi-stage optimization**: Efficient layer caching
- **Security**: Non-root user execution
- **Fast dependencies**: uv package manager
- **Health monitoring**: Built-in health checks
- **Clean environment**: Minimal attack surface

### Frontend Dockerfile (`docker/frontend/Dockerfile`)

```dockerfile
# Build stage
FROM node:20-alpine as builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm ci
COPY . .
RUN npm run build

# Production stage
FROM nginx:alpine
COPY --from=builder /app/dist /usr/share/nginx/html
COPY nginx.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=10s --start-period=5s --retries=3 \
    CMD wget --no-verbose --tries=1 --spider http://localhost:80/ || exit 1
CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
```

**Key Features:**
- **Multi-stage build**: Separates build and runtime environments
- **Optimized size**: Alpine-based images
- **Static serving**: Nginx for efficient asset delivery
- **Custom configuration**: Optimized nginx.conf

## Networking

### Docker Network Configuration
- **Network Name**: `agentspy-network` (production) / `agentspy-dev-network` (development)
- **Driver**: Bridge network for container communication
- **Port Mapping**: Host ports mapped to container ports
- **Service Discovery**: Containers can communicate by service name

### Port Mapping
```
Host Port → Container Port
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT (3000) → 80    # Frontend web interface (nginx)
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT (8000) → 8000   # Backend API server
OTLP_EXTERNAL_PORT (4317) → 4317      # OTLP gRPC receiver
```

### Internal Communication
```
frontend → backend:8000  # API requests
backend → sqlite_data    # Database access
```

## Data Persistence

### Volume Management
```bash
# Production volume
sqlite_data:/app/data  # Persistent SQLite database

# Development volume
sqlite_dev_data:/app/data  # Separate development database
```

### Backup Strategy
```bash
# Create database backup
docker run --rm -v agentspy_sqlite_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar czf /backup/agentspy-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz -C /data .

# Restore database backup
docker run --rm -v agentspy_sqlite_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar xzf /backup/agentspy-backup-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz -C /data
```

## Health Monitoring

### Container Health Checks
Both containers include built-in health checks:

```bash
# Check container health
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml ps

# View health check logs
docker inspect agentspy-backend --format='{{json .State.Health}}'
```

### Application Health Endpoints
```bash
# Basic health check
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Readiness check (for load balancers)
curl http://localhost:8000/health/ready

# Liveness check (for orchestrators)
curl http://localhost:8000/health/live
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Port Conflicts
```bash
# Check if ports are in use
lsof -i :8000  # Backend port
lsof -i :80    # Frontend port

# Solution: Change ports in .env file
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8001
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
```

#### 2. Permission Issues
```bash
# Fix volume permissions
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER ./data

# Or recreate volumes
docker compose down -v
docker compose up -d
```

#### 3. Build Failures
```bash
# Clear Docker cache
docker system prune -a

# Rebuild without cache
docker compose build --no-cache
```

#### 4. Database Issues
```bash
# Check database volume
docker volume inspect agentspy_sqlite_data

# Access database directly
docker exec -it agentspy-backend sqlite3 /app/data/agentspy.db
```

### Debugging Commands
```bash
# Access backend container shell
docker exec -it agentspy-backend bash

# Access frontend container shell
docker exec -it agentspy-frontend sh

# View container logs with timestamps
docker compose logs -f -t backend

# Monitor container resources
docker stats --format "table {{.Container}}\t{{.CPUPerc}}\t{{.MemUsage}}"
```

## Production Deployment

### Recommended Production Setup
1. **Reverse Proxy**: Use Nginx or Traefik for SSL termination
2. **Domain Configuration**: Set up proper domain names
3. **SSL Certificates**: Use Let's Encrypt for HTTPS
4. **Monitoring**: Add Prometheus/Grafana monitoring
5. **Backup Strategy**: Automated database backups
6. **Log Management**: Centralized logging with ELK stack

### Security Considerations
- **API Keys**: Enable authentication with strong API keys
- **CORS**: Restrict origins to known domains
- **Firewall**: Limit access to necessary ports only
- **Updates**: Regular security updates for base images
- **Secrets**: Use Docker secrets for sensitive data

### Scaling Considerations
- **Load Balancing**: Multiple backend instances behind load balancer
- **Database**: Migrate to PostgreSQL for production scale
- **Caching**: Add Redis for session and response caching
- **CDN**: Use CDN for static asset delivery

Commit message:

Hotfix/frontend ws url (#36)
* refactor: remove VITE_WS_URL in favor of automatic inference from API URL

Signed-off-by: Karim Lalani <jimmy00784@gmail.com>

* chore: clean up outdated artifacts and completed plans

- Remove backend test artifacts (test_api_hierarchy.py, test_api_session.py, test_hierarchy.py)
- Remove completed plan documents (DOCKER_COMPOSE_VERIFICATION_RESULTS.md, DOCUMENTATION_UPDATE_SUMMARY.md, PROJECT_STATUS_SUMMARY.md)
- Clean up artifacts directories to remove clutter from completed work
- Keep only relevant future work plans and current artifacts

Signed-off-by: Karim Lalani <jimmy00784@gmail.com>

* fix: improve WebSocket URL resolution and Docker containerization

- Fix WebSocket URL inference to handle relative API URLs
- Add WebSocket proxy configuration in Vite dev server
- Rename Docker services to avoid naming conflicts
- Replace minimal dev container setup with comprehensive configuration
- Update documentation for PostgreSQL production deployment
- Fix database URL logic for default SQLite handling

Signed-off-by: Karim Lalani <jimmy00784@gmail.com>

* docs: update documentation with WebSocket and Docker improvements

- Add WebSocket URL resolution and Vite proxy features to README
- Update comprehensive guide with infrastructure improvements section
- Document WebSocket URL inference with browser host fallback
- Add Vite WebSocket proxy configuration details
- Document Docker service naming improvements and benefits
- Add comprehensive dev container setup documentation
- Update version to 0.1.1 with recent improvements summary
- Improve documentation formatting and readability

Signed-off-by: Karim Lalani <jimmy00784@gmail.com>

---------

Signed-off-by: Karim Lalani <jimmy00784@gmail.com>

docs/DOCKER_SETUP.md, after:

# Agent Spy - Docker Setup Guide

## Overview

Agent Spy provides comprehensive Docker support with separate configurations for production and development environments. The containerized setup includes the FastAPI backend, React frontend, and database storage (SQLite for development, PostgreSQL for production).

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites
- [Docker](https://docker.com/) (version 20.10+)
- [Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/) (version 2.0+)
- Git (for cloning the repository)

### 1. Clone Repository
```bash
git clone https://github.com/lalanikarim/agent-spy.git
cd agent-spy
```

### 2. Configure Environment
```bash
# Copy the environment template
cp env.example .env

# Edit the .env file with your preferred settings
nano .env  # or your preferred editor
```

### 3. Start Agent Spy

#### Production Deployment
```bash
# Using the production convenience script (RECOMMENDED)
bash scripts/docker-prod.sh

# Or manually with docker compose using production environment
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml --env-file .env.production up -d
```

**Important**: For production deployment, you should:
1. Copy `env.example.production` to `.env.production`
2. Customize the production settings, especially:
   - `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` and `DATABASE_PASSWORD` (use strong passwords)
   - `API_KEYS` (set secure API keys)
   - `CORS_ORIGINS` (restrict to your domain)
   - `DATABASE_TYPE=postgresql` (required for production)
3. Use the `docker-prod.sh` script which validates these settings

#### Development Environment
```bash
# Using the convenience script
bash scripts/docker-dev.sh

# Or manually with docker compose
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml up -d
```

## Docker Architecture

### Service Overview

```mermaid
graph TB
    subgraph "Docker Network: agentspy-network"
        subgraph "Frontend Container"
            F1[Nginx Server]
            F2[React App]
        end

        subgraph "Backend Container"
            B1[FastAPI Server]
            B2[Python Runtime]
        end

        subgraph "Storage"
            V1[SQLite Volume (Dev)]
            V2[PostgreSQL Container (Prod)]
        end
    end

    subgraph "External"
        U[Users/Browsers]
        A[AI Agents]
    end

    U --> F1
    F1 --> F2
    F2 --> B1
    A --> B1
    B1 --> V1
```

### Container Details

#### Frontend Container (`agentspy-frontend`)
- **Base Image**: `nginx:alpine`
- **Build Process**: Multi-stage build with Node.js 20
- **Served Content**: Optimized React production build
- **Internal Port**: 80 (fixed)
- **External Port**: Configurable via `FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT`
- **Health Check**: HTTP request to root path

#### Backend Container (`agentspy-backend`)
- **Base Image**: `python:3.13-slim`
- **Package Manager**: uv for fast dependency management
- **Runtime**: FastAPI with Uvicorn server
- **Internal Port**: 8000 (fixed)
- **External Port**: Configurable via `BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT`
- **Health Check**: HTTP request to `/health` endpoint

## Configuration Files

### Production Configuration (`docker-compose.yml`)

```yaml
version: '3.8'

services:
  backend:
    build:
      context: ..
      dockerfile: docker/backend/Dockerfile
    container_name: agentspy-backend
    restart: unless-stopped
    environment:
      ENVIRONMENT: production
      DEBUG: false
      HOST: 0.0.0.0
      PORT: 8000
      DATABASE_URL: sqlite+aiosqlite:////app/data/agentspy.db
      CORS_ORIGINS: "*"
    ports:
      - "${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}:8000"
    volumes:
      - sqlite_data:/app/data
    healthcheck:
      test: ["CMD", "curl", "-f", "http://localhost:8000/health"]
      interval: 30s
      timeout: 10s
      retries: 3
      start_period: 40s

  frontend:
    build:
      context: ../frontend
      dockerfile: ../docker/frontend/Dockerfile
    container_name: agentspy-frontend
    restart: unless-stopped
    ports:
      - "${FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-3000}:80"
    depends_on:
      - backend
    environment:
      - VITE_BACKEND_HOST=${BACKEND_HOST:-localhost}
      - VITE_BACKEND_PORT=${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}
      - VITE_API_BASE_URL=http://${BACKEND_HOST:-localhost}:${BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT:-8000}/api/v1

volumes:
  sqlite_data:
    driver: local

networks:
  agentspy-network:
    driver: bridge
```

### Development Configuration (`docker-compose.dev.yml`)

Key differences from production:
- **Hot Reloading**: Source code mounted as volumes
- **Debug Mode**: Enabled for both frontend and backend
- **Different Ports**: 8001 (backend), 3000 (frontend) to avoid conflicts
- **Verbose Logging**: DEBUG level logging enabled
- **Development Database**: Separate SQLite file (`agentspy_dev.db`)

## Environment Variables

### Core Settings
```bash
# Environment type
ENVIRONMENT=production  # or development

# Debug mode
DEBUG=false  # Set to true for development

# External port mapping
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8000   # External port for backend API
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=3000  # External port for frontend
OTLP_EXTERNAL_PORT=4317      # External port for OTLP gRPC

# Backend hostname for frontend connection
BACKEND_HOST=localhost       # Hostname for frontend to connect to backend
```

### Database Configuration
```bash
# Database settings
DATABASE_ECHO=false  # Set to true to see SQL queries

# Note: Database URL is automatically configured for Docker
# SQLite file is stored in persistent volume at /app/data/
```

### API Configuration
```bash
# Authentication (optional)
REQUIRE_AUTH=false
API_KEYS=your-api-key-1,your-api-key-2

# CORS settings
CORS_ORIGINS=http://localhost:3000,https://yourdomain.com
CORS_CREDENTIALS=true
```

### Performance Settings
```bash
# Resource limits
MAX_TRACE_SIZE_MB=10
REQUEST_TIMEOUT=30

# Logging
LOG_LEVEL=INFO
LOG_FORMAT=json
```

## Docker Commands Reference

### Basic Operations
```bash
# Start services
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d

# Stop services
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down

# View logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml logs -f

# View service status
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml ps
```

### Development Commands
```bash
# Start development environment
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml up -d

# Follow backend logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f backend

# Follow frontend logs
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml logs -f frontend

# Restart a specific service
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.dev.yml restart backend
```

### Maintenance Commands
```bash
# Rebuild containers (after code changes)
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml up -d --build

# Clean up containers and networks
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down --remove-orphans

# Remove volumes (WARNING: This deletes all data)
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml down -v

# View container resource usage
docker stats agentspy-backend agentspy-frontend
```

## Dockerfile Analysis

### Backend Dockerfile (`docker/backend/Dockerfile`)

```dockerfile
FROM python:3.13-slim

# Environment setup
ENV PYTHONUNBUFFERED=1 \
    PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1 \
    UV_SYSTEM_PYTHON=1 \
    PYTHONPATH=/app

# Install system dependencies
RUN apt-get update && apt-get install -y curl && rm -rf /var/lib/apt/lists/*

# Install uv package manager
COPY --from=ghcr.io/astral-sh/uv:latest /uv /bin/uv

# Copy and install Python dependencies
COPY pyproject.toml uv.lock ./
RUN uv sync --frozen --no-dev

# Copy source code
COPY src/ ./src/

# Security: Create non-root user
RUN adduser --disabled-password --gecos '' appuser && \
    mkdir -p /app/data && \
    chown -R appuser:appuser /app
USER appuser

# Health check and startup
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=10s --start-period=5s --retries=3 \
    CMD curl -f http://localhost:8000/health || exit 1
CMD ["uv", "run", "python", "src/main.py"]
```

**Key Features:**
- **Multi-stage optimization**: Efficient layer caching
- **Security**: Non-root user execution
- **Fast dependencies**: uv package manager
- **Health monitoring**: Built-in health checks
- **Clean environment**: Minimal attack surface

### Frontend Dockerfile (`docker/frontend/Dockerfile`)

```dockerfile
# Build stage
FROM node:20-alpine as builder
WORKDIR /app
COPY package*.json ./
RUN npm ci
COPY . .
RUN npm run build

# Production stage
FROM nginx:alpine
COPY --from=builder /app/dist /usr/share/nginx/html
COPY nginx.conf /etc/nginx/conf.d/default.conf
HEALTHCHECK --interval=30s --timeout=10s --start-period=5s --retries=3 \
    CMD wget --no-verbose --tries=1 --spider http://localhost:80/ || exit 1
CMD ["nginx", "-g", "daemon off;"]
```

**Key Features:**
- **Multi-stage build**: Separates build and runtime environments
- **Optimized size**: Alpine-based images
- **Static serving**: Nginx for efficient asset delivery
- **Custom configuration**: Optimized nginx.conf

## Networking

### Docker Network Configuration
- **Network Name**: `agentspy-network` (production) / `agentspy-dev-network` (development)
- **Driver**: Bridge network for container communication
- **Port Mapping**: Host ports mapped to container ports
- **Service Discovery**: Containers can communicate by service name

### Port Mapping
```
Host Port → Container Port
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT (3000) → 80    # Frontend web interface (nginx)
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT (8000) → 8000   # Backend API server
OTLP_EXTERNAL_PORT (4317) → 4317      # OTLP gRPC receiver
```

### Internal Communication
```
frontend → backend:8000  # API requests
backend → sqlite_data    # Database access
```

## Data Persistence

### Volume Management
```bash
# Production volume
sqlite_data:/app/data  # Persistent SQLite database

# Development volume
sqlite_dev_data:/app/data  # Separate development database
```

### Backup Strategy
```bash
# Create database backup
docker run --rm -v agentspy_sqlite_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar czf /backup/agentspy-backup-$(date +%Y%m%d).tar.gz -C /data .

# Restore database backup
docker run --rm -v agentspy_sqlite_data:/data -v $(pwd):/backup alpine \
  tar xzf /backup/agentspy-backup-YYYYMMDD.tar.gz -C /data
```

## Health Monitoring

### Container Health Checks
Both containers include built-in health checks:

```bash
# Check container health
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml ps

# View health check logs
docker inspect agentspy-backend --format='{{json .State.Health}}'
```

### Application Health Endpoints
```bash
# Basic health check
curl http://localhost:8000/health

# Readiness check (for load balancers)
curl http://localhost:8000/health/ready

# Liveness check (for orchestrators)
curl http://localhost:8000/health/live
```

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

#### 1. Port Conflicts
```bash
# Check if ports are in use
lsof -i :8000  # Backend port
lsof -i :80    # Frontend port

# Solution: Change ports in .env file
BACKEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8001
FRONTEND_EXTERNAL_PORT=8080
```

#### 2. Permission Issues
```bash
# Fix volume permissions
sudo chown -R $USER:$USER ./data

# Or recreate volumes
docker compose down -v
docker compose up -d
```

#### 3. Build Failures
```bash
# Clear Docker cache
docker system prune -a

# Rebuild without cache
docker compose build --no-cache
```

#### 4. Database Issues
```bash
# Check database volume
docker volume inspect agentspy_sqlite_data

# Access database directly
docker exec -it agentspy-backend sqlite3 /app/data/agentspy.db
```

#### 5. Wrong Database Type in Production
If you see SQLite being used instead of PostgreSQL in production logs:
```bash
# Check current database configuration
docker compose -f docker/docker-compose.yml --env-file .env.production logs backend | grep "database connection"

# Verify .env.production has correct settings
grep DATABASE_TYPE .env.production

# Solution: Use the production script
bash scripts/docker-prod.sh
```

### Debugging Commands
```bash
# Access backend container shell
docker exec -it agentspy-backend bash

# Access frontend container shell
docker exec -it agentspy-frontend sh

# View container logs with timestamps
docker compose logs -f -t backend

# Monitor container resources
docker stats --format "table {{.Container}}\t{{.CPUPerc}}\t{{.MemUsage}}"
```

## Production Deployment

### Recommended Production Setup
1. **Reverse Proxy**: Use Nginx or Traefik for SSL termination
2. **Domain Configuration**: Set up proper domain names
3. **SSL Certificates**: Use Let's Encrypt for HTTPS
4. **Monitoring**: Add Prometheus/Grafana monitoring
5. **Backup Strategy**: Automated database backups
6. **Log Management**: Centralized logging with ELK stack

### Security Considerations
- **API Keys**: Enable authentication with strong API keys
- **CORS**: Restrict origins to known domains
- **Firewall**: Limit access to necessary ports only
- **Updates**: Regular security updates for base images
- **Secrets**: Use Docker secrets for sensitive data

### Scaling Considerations
- **Load Balancing**: Multiple backend instances behind load balancer
- **Database**: PostgreSQL is included in production setup for better performance and scalability
- **Caching**: Add Redis for session and response caching
- **CDN**: Use CDN for static asset delivery
